kogito-springboot-examples/rules-legacy-springboot-example/README.md, before:

# RuleUnit + Spring Boot example

## Description

A simple rule service to validate `LoanApplication` fact.

An injectable KieRuntimeBuilder is generated, so you can create Drools v7 KieBase and KieSession out of it.

## Installing and Running

### Prerequisites

You will need:
  - Java 11+ installed
  - Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
  - Maven 3.8.6+ installed

### Compile and Run

```sh
mvn clean compile spring-boot:run
```

### Package and Run

```sh
mvn clean package
java -jar target/ruleunit-springboot-example.jar
```

## OpenAPI (Swagger) documentation
[Specification at swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

You can take a look at the [OpenAPI definition](http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs) - automatically generated and included in this service - to determine all available operations exposed by this service. For easy readability you can visualize the OpenAPI definition file using a UI tool like for example available [Swagger UI](https://editor.swagger.io).

In addition, various clients to interact with this service can be easily generated using this OpenAPI definition.

## Example Usage

Once the service is up and running, you can use the following examples to interact with the service.

### POST /find-approved

Returns approved loan applications from the given facts:

```sh
curl -X POST -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"maxAmount":5000,"loanApplications":[{"id":"ABC10001","amount":2000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":45,"name":"John"}}, {"id":"ABC10002","amount":5000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":25,"name":"Paul"}}, {"id":"ABC10015","amount":1000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":12,"name":"George"}}]}' http://localhost:8080/find-approved
```
or on windows

```sh
curl -X POST -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"maxAmount\":5000,\"loanApplications\":[{\"id\":\"ABC10001\",\"amount\":2000,\"deposit\":100,\"applicant\":{\"age\":45,\"name\":\"John\"}}, {\"id\":\"ABC10002\",\"amount\":5000,\"deposit\":100,\"applicant\":{\"age\":25,\"name\":\"Paul\"}}, {\"id\":\"ABC10015\",\"amount\":1000,\"deposit\":100,\"applicant\":{\"age\":12,\"name\":\"George\"}}]}" http://localhost:8080/find-approved
```

As response an array of loan applications is returned.

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id":"ABC10001",
    "applicant":{
      "name":"John",
      "age":45
    },
    "amount":2000,
    "deposit":100,
    "approved":true
  }
]
```

### POST /find-not-approved-id-and-amount

Returns ids and amount values of rejected loan applications from the given facts:

```sh
curl -X POST -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"maxAmount":5000,"loanApplications":[{"id":"ABC10001","amount":2000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":45,"name":"John"}}, {"id":"ABC10002","amount":5000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":25,"name":"Paul"}}, {"id":"ABC10015","amount":1000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":12,"name":"George"}}]}' http://localhost:8080/find-not-approved-id-and-amount
```

As response an array of loan application ids and amount values is returned.

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "$amount":5000,
    "$id":"ABC10002"
  },
  {
    "$amount":1000,
    "$id":"ABC10015"
  }
]
```

Commit message:

[incubator-kie-issues#1780] Cleanup rules springboot examples (#2059)
* Corrected README.md files for 5 examples

* Modified Swagger Info

kogito-springboot-examples/rules-legacy-springboot-example/README.md, after:

# RuleUnit + Spring Boot example

## Description

A simple rule service to validate `LoanApplication` fact.

An injectable KieRuntimeBuilder is generated, so you can create Drools v7 KieBase and KieSession out of it.

## Installing and Running

### Prerequisites

You will need:
  - Java 11+ installed
  - Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
  - Maven 3.8.6+ installed

### Compile and Run

```sh
mvn clean compile spring-boot:run
```

### Package and Run

```sh
mvn clean package
java -jar target/rules-legacy-springboot-example.jar
```

## OpenAPI (Swagger) documentation
[Specification at swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

The [Swagger](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html) page shows all the available endpoints, and it could be used to test them.
You can take a look at the [OpenAPI definition](http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs) - automatically generated and included in this service - to determine all available operations exposed by this service. For easy readability you can visualize the OpenAPI definition file using a UI tool like for example available [Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io).

In addition, various clients to interact with this service can be easily generated using this OpenAPI definition.

## Example Usage

Once the service is up and running, you can use the following examples to interact with the service.

### POST /find-approved

Returns approved loan applications from the given facts:

```sh
curl -X POST -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"maxAmount":5000,"loanApplications":[{"id":"ABC10001","amount":2000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":45,"name":"John"}}, {"id":"ABC10002","amount":5000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":25,"name":"Paul"}}, {"id":"ABC10015","amount":1000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":12,"name":"George"}}]}' http://localhost:8080/find-approved
```
or on windows

```sh
curl -X POST -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"maxAmount\":5000,\"loanApplications\":[{\"id\":\"ABC10001\",\"amount\":2000,\"deposit\":100,\"applicant\":{\"age\":45,\"name\":\"John\"}}, {\"id\":\"ABC10002\",\"amount\":5000,\"deposit\":100,\"applicant\":{\"age\":25,\"name\":\"Paul\"}}, {\"id\":\"ABC10015\",\"amount\":1000,\"deposit\":100,\"applicant\":{\"age\":12,\"name\":\"George\"}}]}" http://localhost:8080/find-approved
```

As response an array of loan applications is returned.

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id":"ABC10001",
    "applicant":{
      "name":"John",
      "age":45
    },
    "amount":2000,
    "deposit":100,
    "approved":true
  }
]
```

### POST /find-not-approved-id-and-amount

Returns ids and amount values of rejected loan applications from the given facts:

```sh
curl -X POST -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"maxAmount":5000,"loanApplications":[{"id":"ABC10001","amount":2000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":45,"name":"John"}}, {"id":"ABC10002","amount":5000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":25,"name":"Paul"}}, {"id":"ABC10015","amount":1000,"deposit":100,"applicant":{"age":12,"name":"George"}}]}' http://localhost:8080/find-not-approved-id-and-amount
```

As response an array of loan application ids and amount values is returned.

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "$amount":5000,
    "$id":"ABC10002"
  },
  {
    "$amount":1000,
    "$id":"ABC10015"
  }
]
```
