kogito-quarkus-examples/process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus/README.md, before:

# Process with persistence powered by MongoDB

## Description

A quickstart project that processes deals for travellers. It utilizes process composition to split the work of

* submitting a deal
* reviewing a deal

At the same time shows simplified version of a approval process that waits for human actor to provide review.

This example shows

* exposing Submit Deal as public service
* each process instance is going to be evaluated and asks for review
* at any point in time service can be shutdown and when brought back it will keep the state of the instances

Note: The use of this example shows that the data sent to MongoDB is saved, you can shut down the application and restart it
and as long as MongoDB is running after you restart you should still see the data

It utilizes MongoDB server as the backend store.

* Process (submitDeal.bpmn)
<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/process.png"></p>

* Process Properties (top)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/processProperties.png"></p>

* Process Properties (bottom)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/processProperties2.png"></p>

* Call a deal
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/callADeal.png"></p>

* Call a deal (Assignments)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/callADeal2.png"></p>

* Print review the Deal
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/printReviewTheDeal.png"></p>

* Subprocess (reviewDeal.bpmn)
<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/subprocess.png"></p>

* Deal Review (top)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/dealReview.png"></p>

* Deal Review (bottom)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/dealReview3.png"></p>

* Review deal user task	(top)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/reviewDealUserTask.png"></p>

* Review deal user task	(botom)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/reviewDealUserTask2.png"></p>

* Review deal user task	(Assignments)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/reviewDealUserTask3.png"></p>

## Infrastructure requirements

This quickstart requires an MongoDB server to be available and by default expects it to be on default port(27017) and localhost.
The default database is "kogito" or you can provide the database name using property - quarkus.mongodb.database.
You must set property - kogito.persistence.type=mongodb 
For more details you can check applications.properties.

* MongoDB installed and running
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/MongoDB_connection.png"></p>

## Build and run

### Prerequisites

You will need:
  - Java 17+ installed
  - Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
  - Maven 3.9.6+ installed

When using native image compilation, you will also need:
  - GraalVM 19.3+ installed
  - Environment variable GRAALVM_HOME set accordingly
  - GraalVM native image needs as well native-image extension: https://www.graalvm.org/reference-manual/native-image/
  - Note that GraalVM native image compilation typically requires other packages (glibc-devel, zlib-devel and gcc) to be installed too, please refer to GraalVM installation documentation for more details.

### Compile and Run in Local Dev Mode

```sh
mvn clean compile quarkus:dev
```

NOTE: With dev mode of Quarkus you can take advantage of hot reload for business assets like processes, rules, decision tables and java code. No need to redeploy or restart your running application.

Kogito runtimes need to be able to safely handle concurrent requests to shared instances such as process instances, tasks, etc.
This feature is optional and can be pluggable with persistence using the following property and value to the src/main/resources/application.properties file.

```
kogito.persistence.optimistic.lock=true 
```
Additionally, you can use below commands to set this property at runtime and build and run the application 

```
mvn clean compile quarkus:dev -Dkogito.persistence.optimistic.lock=true
```
or 

```
mvn clean package
java -Dkogito.persistence.optimistic.lock=true -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```
### Package and Run in JVM mode

```sh
mvn clean package
java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on windows

```sh
mvn clean package
java -jar target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```sh
mvn clean package -Pnative
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `target/`, execute

```
./target/process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus-runner
```

### OpenAPI (Swagger) documentation
[Specification at swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

You can take a look at the [OpenAPI definition](http://localhost:8080/openapi?format=json) - automatically generated and included in this service - to determine all available operations exposed by this service. For easy readability you can visualize the OpenAPI definition file using a UI tool like for example available [Swagger UI](https://editor.swagger.io).

In addition, various clients to interact with this service can be easily generated using this OpenAPI definition.

When running in either Quarkus Development or Native mode, we also leverage the [Quarkus OpenAPI extension](https://quarkus.io/guides/openapi-swaggerui#use-swagger-ui-for-development) that exposes [Swagger UI](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/) that you can use to look at available REST endpoints and send test requests.

### Submit a deal

To make use of this application it is as simple as putting a sending request to `http://localhost:8080/deals`  with following content

```json
{
"name" : "my fancy deal",
"traveller" : {
  "firstName" : "John",
  "lastName" : "Doe",
  "email" : "jon.doe@example.com",
  "nationality" : "American",
  "address" : {
  	"street" : "main street",
  	"city" : "Boston",
  	"zipCode" : "10005",
  	"country" : "US" }
  }
}

```

Complete curl command can be found below:

```
curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' -d '{"name" : "my fancy deal", "traveller" : { "firstName" : "John", "lastName" : "Doe", "email" : "jon.doe@example.com", "nationality" : "American","address" : { "street" : "main street", "city" : "Boston", "zipCode" : "10005", "country" : "US" }}}' http://localhost:8080/deals
```

this will then trigger the review user task that you can work with.

### Get review task for given deal

First you can display all active reviews of deals

```
curl -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews
```

based on the response you can select one of the reviews to see more details

```
curl -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews/{uuid}/tasks?user=john
```

where uuid is the id of the deal review you want to work with.

Next you can get the details assigned to review user task by

```
curl -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews/{uuid}/review/{tuuid}?user=john
```

where uuid is the id of the deal review and tuuid is the id of the user task you want to get


### Complete review task for given deal

Last but not least you can complete review user task by

```
curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' -d '{"review" : "very good work"}' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews/{uuid}/review/{tuuid}?user=john
```

where uuid is the id of the deal review and tuuid is the id of the user task you want to get

* Review Log should look similar to

```
Review of the deal very good work for traveller Doe
```

You can also query the process instance information and model variables from the database and review the same using tools like MongoDB Compass, download community version from below link
https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass

Commit message:

[incubator-kie-issues#1260] Add note to README files of workflow examples regarding required configuration setting for native images

kogito-quarkus-examples/process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus/README.md, after:

# Process with persistence powered by MongoDB

## Description

A quickstart project that processes deals for travellers. It utilizes process composition to split the work of

* submitting a deal
* reviewing a deal

At the same time shows simplified version of a approval process that waits for human actor to provide review.

This example shows

* exposing Submit Deal as public service
* each process instance is going to be evaluated and asks for review
* at any point in time service can be shutdown and when brought back it will keep the state of the instances

Note: The use of this example shows that the data sent to MongoDB is saved, you can shut down the application and restart it
and as long as MongoDB is running after you restart you should still see the data

It utilizes MongoDB server as the backend store.

* Process (submitDeal.bpmn)
<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/process.png"></p>

* Process Properties (top)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/processProperties.png"></p>

* Process Properties (bottom)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/processProperties2.png"></p>

* Call a deal
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/callADeal.png"></p>

* Call a deal (Assignments)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/callADeal2.png"></p>

* Print review the Deal
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/printReviewTheDeal.png"></p>

* Subprocess (reviewDeal.bpmn)
<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/subprocess.png"></p>

* Deal Review (top)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/dealReview.png"></p>

* Deal Review (bottom)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/dealReview3.png"></p>

* Review deal user task	(top)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/reviewDealUserTask.png"></p>

* Review deal user task	(botom)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/reviewDealUserTask2.png"></p>

* Review deal user task	(Assignments)
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/reviewDealUserTask3.png"></p>

## Infrastructure requirements

This quickstart requires an MongoDB server to be available and by default expects it to be on default port(27017) and localhost.
The default database is "kogito" or you can provide the database name using property - quarkus.mongodb.database.
You must set property - kogito.persistence.type=mongodb 
For more details you can check applications.properties.

* MongoDB installed and running
<p align="center"><img src="docs/images/MongoDB_connection.png"></p>

## Build and run

### Prerequisites

You will need:
  - Java 17+ installed
  - Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
  - Maven 3.9.6+ installed

When using native image compilation, you will also need:
  - GraalVM 19.3+ installed
  - Environment variable GRAALVM_HOME set accordingly
  - GraalVM native image needs as well native-image extension: https://www.graalvm.org/reference-manual/native-image/
  - Note that GraalVM native image compilation typically requires other packages (glibc-devel, zlib-devel and gcc) to be installed too, please refer to GraalVM installation documentation for more details.

### Compile and Run in Local Dev Mode

```sh
mvn clean compile quarkus:dev
```

NOTE: With dev mode of Quarkus you can take advantage of hot reload for business assets like processes, rules, decision tables and java code. No need to redeploy or restart your running application.

Kogito runtimes need to be able to safely handle concurrent requests to shared instances such as process instances, tasks, etc.
This feature is optional and can be pluggable with persistence using the following property and value to the src/main/resources/application.properties file.

```
kogito.persistence.optimistic.lock=true 
```
Additionally, you can use below commands to set this property at runtime and build and run the application 

```
mvn clean compile quarkus:dev -Dkogito.persistence.optimistic.lock=true
```
or 

```
mvn clean package
java -Dkogito.persistence.optimistic.lock=true -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```
### Package and Run in JVM mode

```sh
mvn clean package
java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on windows

```sh
mvn clean package
java -jar target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that the following configuration property needs to be added to `application.properties` in order to enable automatic registration of `META-INF/services` entries required by the workflow engine:
```
quarkus.native.auto-service-loader-registration=true
```

Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```sh
mvn clean package -Pnative
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `target/`, execute

```
./target/process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus-runner
```

### OpenAPI (Swagger) documentation
[Specification at swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

You can take a look at the [OpenAPI definition](http://localhost:8080/openapi?format=json) - automatically generated and included in this service - to determine all available operations exposed by this service. For easy readability you can visualize the OpenAPI definition file using a UI tool like for example available [Swagger UI](https://editor.swagger.io).

In addition, various clients to interact with this service can be easily generated using this OpenAPI definition.

When running in either Quarkus Development or Native mode, we also leverage the [Quarkus OpenAPI extension](https://quarkus.io/guides/openapi-swaggerui#use-swagger-ui-for-development) that exposes [Swagger UI](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/) that you can use to look at available REST endpoints and send test requests.

### Submit a deal

To make use of this application it is as simple as putting a sending request to `http://localhost:8080/deals`  with following content

```json
{
"name" : "my fancy deal",
"traveller" : {
  "firstName" : "John",
  "lastName" : "Doe",
  "email" : "jon.doe@example.com",
  "nationality" : "American",
  "address" : {
  	"street" : "main street",
  	"city" : "Boston",
  	"zipCode" : "10005",
  	"country" : "US" }
  }
}

```

Complete curl command can be found below:

```
curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' -d '{"name" : "my fancy deal", "traveller" : { "firstName" : "John", "lastName" : "Doe", "email" : "jon.doe@example.com", "nationality" : "American","address" : { "street" : "main street", "city" : "Boston", "zipCode" : "10005", "country" : "US" }}}' http://localhost:8080/deals
```

this will then trigger the review user task that you can work with.

### Get review task for given deal

First you can display all active reviews of deals

```
curl -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews
```

based on the response you can select one of the reviews to see more details

```
curl -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews/{uuid}/tasks?user=john
```

where uuid is the id of the deal review you want to work with.

Next you can get the details assigned to review user task by

```
curl -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews/{uuid}/review/{tuuid}?user=john
```

where uuid is the id of the deal review and tuuid is the id of the user task you want to get


### Complete review task for given deal

Last but not least you can complete review user task by

```
curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type:application/json' -H 'Accept:application/json' -d '{"review" : "very good work"}' http://localhost:8080/dealreviews/{uuid}/review/{tuuid}?user=john
```

where uuid is the id of the deal review and tuuid is the id of the user task you want to get

* Review Log should look similar to

```
Review of the deal very good work for traveller Doe
```

You can also query the process instance information and model variables from the database and review the same using tools like MongoDB Compass, download community version from below link
https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass
