serverless-operator-examples/serverless-workflow-get-random-catfact/README.md, before:

# {product_name} Operator - Get Random Cat Fact Example

## Description

The goal of this example is to showcase use of [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) for local development and subsequent deployment of finished {product_name} application.

### Use Case

This example is doing basic decision based on input provided to the workflow. If the input matches a string, workflow will query a specific endpoint and store the result, otherwise it uses a static string.
The example contains workflow definition, necessary application.properties and an openAPI spec file to be able to query external service.

### Prerequisites

1. Install [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html)
2. Install the [Operator](https://kiegroup.github.io/kogito-docs/serverlessworkflow/latest/cloud/operator/install-serverless-operator.html)
3. Checkout this example locally

### Run the example in local environment

In order to ensure the developed workflows does what it is meant to do, `run` command allows users to spin up a container in development mode on localhost. A [management console](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-overview.html) is available for users to play with the workflows.

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example
2. Execute `kn workflow run`
3. Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows` to access the management console
4. You can modify the project, any changes will be detected and the container will update

### Deploy the example to cluster

Once the workflow is doing what it is expected to do, the `deploy` command allows users to create deployments of the workflow on the targeted cluster. To deploy a workflow application, [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) relies on configuration in `<home_directory>/.kube/config`. If you cluster has managed access, users need to login prior to the use of CLI. 

Please note that by default, the `deploy` command deploys the workflow in `dev` mode. This mode allows you to examine the deployment in actual k8s cluster environment, with same development features as `run` command does locally. Follow the guide to understand how to deploy the workflow in different modes, suitable for post-development scenarios.

1. Create a namespace for your deployment `oc create namespace catfactexample`
2. Navigate to the root directory of the example
3. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample`
4. Access your cluster, you should see new deployment in `catfactexample` namespace
5. Management console can be accessed on the `<WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL>/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows`

### Undeploy the example from cluster

In order to get rid of the deployment, `undeploy` command allows user to cleanup the deployed resources.

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow undeploy -n catfactexample`
3. The namespace is now clean and without any resources.

### Deploy the example to cluster with different configuration

By default, `deploy` command generates the Kubernetes definitions during the deployment. In order to customize these files, use `--custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests` parameter to store the generated Kubernetes manifests. Once modified, use `--custom-manifests-dir=./manifests` to use the already generated manifests.

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests`
3. Navigate to the `/.manifests` folder and modify the files.
4. Navigate to root directory of the example.
5. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-manifests-dir=./manifests`

Another option is to use `gen-manifest` to create the Kubernetes manifests, run `kn workflow gen-manifest --help` to see the documentation for this command. The procedure to deploy is as follows:

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow gen-manifest -n catfactexample --profile=preview --custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests`
3. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-manifests-dir=./manifests`
4. The workflow is now deployed with `sonataflow.org/profile: preview` annotation.


Once the application is deployed, you can trigger the workflows. This is as simple as sending a
HTTP POST request to the endpoint of your workflow application. For example `curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' -d '{"fact":"random"}' http://<URL_TO_HOST>/getcatfactinformation` where `URL_TO_HOST` depends on the environment you are in.

Commit message:

kogito-example-2041: Add note about retrieval URL on different clusters

serverless-operator-examples/serverless-workflow-get-random-catfact/README.md, after:

# {product_name} Operator - Get Random Cat Fact Example

## Description

The goal of this example is to showcase use of [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) for local development and subsequent deployment of finished {product_name} application.

### Use Case

This example is doing basic decision based on input provided to the workflow. If the input matches a string, workflow will query a specific endpoint and store the result, otherwise it uses a static string.
The example contains workflow definition, necessary application.properties and an openAPI spec file to be able to query external service.

### Prerequisites

1. Install [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html)
2. Install the [Operator](https://kiegroup.github.io/kogito-docs/serverlessworkflow/latest/cloud/operator/install-serverless-operator.html)
3. Checkout this example locally

### Run the example in local environment

In order to ensure the developed workflows does what it is meant to do, `run` command allows users to spin up a container in development mode on localhost. A [management console](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-overview.html) is available for users to play with the workflows.

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example
2. Execute `kn workflow run`
3. Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows` to access the management console
4. You can modify the project, any changes will be detected and the container will update

### Deploy the example to cluster

Once the workflow is doing what it is expected to do, the `deploy` command allows users to create deployments of the workflow on the targeted cluster. To deploy a workflow application, [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) relies on configuration in `<home_directory>/.kube/config`. If you cluster has managed access, users need to login prior to the use of CLI. 

Please note that by default, the `deploy` command deploys the workflow in `dev` mode. This mode allows you to examine the deployment in actual k8s cluster environment, with same development features as `run` command does locally. Follow the guide to understand how to deploy the workflow in different modes, suitable for post-development scenarios.

1. Create a namespace for your deployment `oc create namespace catfactexample`
2. Navigate to the root directory of the example
3. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample`
4. Access your cluster, you should see new deployment in `catfactexample` namespace
5. Management console can be accessed on the `<WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL>/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows`

[NOTE]
====
To retrieve the <WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL> in different environments, please follow the guide in their documentation: [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/accessing/) and [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/ingress/).
====

### Undeploy the example from cluster

In order to get rid of the deployment, `undeploy` command allows user to cleanup the deployed resources.

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow undeploy -n catfactexample`
3. The namespace is now clean and without any resources.

### Deploy the example to cluster with different configuration

By default, `deploy` command generates the Kubernetes definitions during the deployment. In order to customize these files, use `--custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests` parameter to store the generated Kubernetes manifests. Once modified, use `--custom-manifests-dir=./manifests` to use the already generated manifests.

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests`
3. Navigate to the `/.manifests` folder and modify the files.
4. Navigate to root directory of the example.
5. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-manifests-dir=./manifests`

Another option is to use `gen-manifest` to create the Kubernetes manifests, run `kn workflow gen-manifest --help` to see the documentation for this command. The procedure to deploy is as follows:

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow gen-manifest -n catfactexample --profile=preview --custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests`
3. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-manifests-dir=./manifests`
4. The workflow is now deployed with `sonataflow.org/profile: preview` annotation.


Once the application is deployed, you can trigger the workflows. This is as simple as sending a
HTTP POST request to the endpoint of your workflow application. For example `curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' -d '{"fact":"random"}' http://<URL_TO_HOST>/getcatfactinformation` where `URL_TO_HOST` depends on the environment you are in.
