kogito-quarkus-examples/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console/README.md, before:

# Process user tasks with timer: Hiring

## Description

This Quickstart showcases a basic implementation of the **Hiring** process. 

This quickstart project shows very typical user task orchestration with a timer that avoids to execute the HR Interview task 
after some reasonable time.(configured for test purposes to 40 seconds)

> **_NOTE:_** This example uses keycloak authentication to enable security only in the consoles and not in runtime.

<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/Process-with-job.png"></p>

The required *Kogito and Infrastructure Services* for this example are:

- Infinispan / Postgresql
- Kafka
- Kogito Data Index
- Kogito Jobs Service 
- Kogito Management Console
- Kogito Task Console
- Keycloak

## Running the Quickstart

### Prerequisites

* Java 17+ installed
* Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
* Maven 3.9.6+ installed
* Docker and Docker Compose to run the required example infrastructure.

And when using native image compilation, you will also need: 
  - GraalVM 20.3+ installed
  - Environment variable GRAALVM_HOME set accordingly
  - GraalVM native image needs as well native-image extension: https://www.graalvm.org/reference-manual/native-image/
  - Note that GraalVM native image compilation typically requires other packages (glibc-devel, zlib-devel and gcc) to be installed too, please refer to GraalVM installation documentation for more details.

### Starting the Kogito and Infrastructure Services

This quickstart provides a docker compose template that starts all the required services. This setup ensures that all services are connected with a default configuration.

<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/services.png"></p>

### Run Example with PostgreSQL

#### Compile Hiring example with profile postgresql

First thing is to compile the example with the postgresql profile executing:

- Open a Terminal
- Go to the example folder and run
```sh
mvn clean install -Ppostgresql
```

#### Start infrastructure services

You should start all the services before you execute any of the **Hiring** example, to do that please execute:

1. Open a Terminal
2. Go to docker-compose folder
3. Run the ```startServices.sh``` script

```bash
sh ./startServices.sh
```

or

```bash
sh ./startServices.sh postgresql
```

Once all services bootstrap, the following ports will be assigned on your local machine:

- PostgreSQL: 5432
- Kafka: 9092
- Data Index: 8180
- Jobs Service: 8580
- Management Console: 8280
- Task Console: 8380
- Keycloak: 8480
- PgAdmin: 8055

> **_NOTE:_**  This step requires the project to be compiled, please consider running a ```mvn clean install``` command on the project root before running the ```startServices.sh``` script for the first time or any time you modify the project.

Once started you can simply stop all services by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-postgresql.yml stop```.

All created containers can be removed by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-postgresql.yml rm```.

#### Run the Hiring example with PostgreSQL

##### Compile and Run Hiring example process in Local Dev Mode

Once all the infrastructure services are ready, you can start the Hiring example by doing:

- Open a Terminal
- Go to the hiring example folder
- Start the example with the command

```bash
mvn clean package quarkus:dev -Ppostgresql
```

NOTE: With dev mode of Quarkus you can take advantage of hot reload for business assets like processes, rules, decision tables and java code. No need to redeploy or restart your running application.

##### Package and Run in JVM mode

```sh
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql
java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on windows

```sh
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql
java -jar target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

##### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```sh
mvn clean package -Pnative -Ppostgresql
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `target/`, execute

```sh
./target/./target/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console-runner
```

### Run Example with Infinispan

#### Compile Hiring example with profile infinispan

First thing is to compile the example with the infinispan profile executing:

1. Open a Terminal
2. Go to the example folder and run
```sh
mvn clean install -Pinfinispan
```
#### Start infrastructure services

You should start all the services before you execute any of the **Hiring** example, to do that please execute:

1. Open a Terminal
2. Go to docker-compose folder
3. Run the ```startServices.sh``` script with infinispan argument

```bash
sh ./startServices.sh infinispan
```

Once all services bootstrap, the following ports will be assigned on your local machine:

- Infinispan: 11222
- Kafka: 9092
- Data Index: 8180
- Jobs Service: 8580
- Management Console: 8280
- Task Console: 8380
- Keycloak: 8480

> **_NOTE:_**  This step requires the project to be compiled, please consider running a ```mvn clean install -Pinfinispan``` command on the project root before running the ```startServices.sh infinispan``` script for the first time or any time you modify the project.

Once started you can simply stop all services by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-infinispan.yml stop```.

All created containers can be removed by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-infinispan.yml rm```.

#### Run the Hiring example with Infinispan

##### Compile and Run Hiring example process in Local Dev Mode

Once all the infrastructure services are ready, you can start the Hiring example by doing:

- Open a Terminal
- Go to the hiring example folder
- Start the example with the command

```bash
mvn clean package quarkus:dev -Pinfinispan
```

NOTE: With dev mode of Quarkus you can take advantage of hot reload for business assets like processes, rules, decision tables and java code. No need to redeploy or restart your running application.

##### Package and Run in JVM mode

```sh
mvn clean package -Pinfinispan
java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on windows

```sh
mvn clean package -Pinfinispan
java -jar target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

##### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```sh
mvn clean package -Pnative -Pinfinispan
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `target/`, execute

```sh
./target/./target/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console-runner
```


### Using Keycloak as Authentication Server

In this Quickstart we'll be using [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) as *Authentication Server*. It will be started as a part of the project *Infrastructure Services*, you can check the configuration on the project [docker-compose.yml](docker-compose/docker-compose.yml) in [docker-compose](docker-compose) folder.

It will install the *Kogito Realm* that comes with a predefined set of users:
| Login         | Password   | Roles               |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------------------- |
|    admin      |   admin    | *admin*, *managers* |
|    alice      |   alice    | *user*              |
|    jdoe       |   jdoe     | *managers*          |

Once Keycloak is started, you should be able to access your *Keycloak Server* at [localhost:8480/auth](http://localhost:8480/auth) with *admin* user.

### Submit a request to start new hiring

Once the service is up and running you can make use of the **Hiring** application by a sending request to `http://localhost:8080/hiring`  with following content:
```json
{   
    "candidate": {
        "name": "Harry Potter",
        "email": "harrypotter@example.com",
        "salary": 30000,
        "skills": "Java, Kogito"
    }
}
```
In a Terminal, you can execute the following command to start a **Hiring** process for the "Harry Potter" candidate:
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/hiring -d @- << EOF
{   
    "candidate": {
        "name": "Harry Potter",
        "email": "harrypotter@example.com",
        "salary": 30000,
        "skills": "Java, Kogito"
    }
}
EOF
```

### Show active Hiring process instance at Kogito Management Console

To access the Kogito Management Console just open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8280``. You'll be redirected to the *Keycloak* log in page.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/keycloak-login.png">
</p>

Once there, log in using any of the users specified in the [Using Keycloak as Authentication Server](#using-keycloak-as-authentication-server) 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_list.png">
</p>

> **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Kogito Management Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-management-console_kogito-developing-process-services) page.

Check the process instance details to see where is the execution path 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_1_new_hiring.png">
</p>

We have configured the timer to avoid the HR interview after reasonable time (40s, just for testing purpose)

Let's give the app more than 40s to see the timer in action.

Check the process instance details 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_2_IT_executed_job.png">
</p>

Job panel shows the job details related to the timer execution:
  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/Job_details.png">
</p>

### Execute IT Interview task at Kogito Task Console

To access the Kogito Task Console just open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8280``. You'll be redirected to the *Keycloak* log in page.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/keycloak-login.png">
</p>

Once there, log in using any of the users specified in the [Using Keycloak as Authentication Server](#using-keycloak-as-authentication-server) 

> **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Kogito Task Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services) page.

Access to Task Console again and verify IT Interview is available  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/TC_listIT.png">
</p>

Access to IT Interview task, and complete.  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/IT_task.png">
</p>

After complete the task, check the list of tasks show both completed tasks  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/TC_listIT_completed.png">
</p>

Check the process instance details to verify the instance have been completed 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_3_completed_executed_job.png">
</p>

Jobs can be accessed in two ways on Management console:

You can navigate to the process details page which has a dedicated panel showing a list of jobs associated with the process instance.

You can also check the list of all the jobs available by navigating to the Jobs section.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/JobsManagement.png">
</p>

Let's verify the HR interview has been avoided looking at application logs.
<p align="center">
    <img width=100%  src="docs/images/HR_interview_avoided_logs.png">
</p>

### Submit a new request to start new hiring

In a Terminal you can execute this command to start a **Hiring** process for the "Jon Snow" candidate:
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/hiring -d @- << EOF
{   
    "candidate": {
        "name": "Jon Snow",
        "email": "jdoe@example.com",
        "salary": 30000,
        "skills": "Java, Kogito"
    }
}
EOF
```

### Execute HR Interview task before timer expires at Kogito Task Console

Access the Kogito Task Console.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/TC_listHR.png">
</p>

Access to HR Interview task and complete
  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/HR_task.png">
</p>

Check the process instance details at Kogito Management Console to see the execution path reflects the completed task

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_4_IT_no_job.png">
</p>

Verify the job associated is displayed as cancelled regarding the HR Interview Task has been completed.

Execute IT Interview task as it was described before, and access to the process instance details and see that it has been completed. 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_5_completed_no_job.png">
</p>

Finally, verify the HR interview has been completed by looking at application logs.

<p align="center">
    <img width=100%  src="docs/images/HR_interview_completed_logs.png">
</p>

Commit message:

[incubator-kie-issues#1260] Add note to README files of workflow examples regarding required configuration setting for native images (#1929)

kogito-quarkus-examples/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console/README.md, after:

# Process user tasks with timer: Hiring

## Description

This Quickstart showcases a basic implementation of the **Hiring** process. 

This quickstart project shows very typical user task orchestration with a timer that avoids to execute the HR Interview task 
after some reasonable time.(configured for test purposes to 40 seconds)

> **_NOTE:_** This example uses keycloak authentication to enable security only in the consoles and not in runtime.

<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/Process-with-job.png"></p>

The required *Kogito and Infrastructure Services* for this example are:

- Infinispan / Postgresql
- Kafka
- Kogito Data Index
- Kogito Jobs Service 
- Kogito Management Console
- Kogito Task Console
- Keycloak

## Running the Quickstart

### Prerequisites

* Java 17+ installed
* Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
* Maven 3.9.6+ installed
* Docker and Docker Compose to run the required example infrastructure.

And when using native image compilation, you will also need: 
  - GraalVM 20.3+ installed
  - Environment variable GRAALVM_HOME set accordingly
  - GraalVM native image needs as well native-image extension: https://www.graalvm.org/reference-manual/native-image/
  - Note that GraalVM native image compilation typically requires other packages (glibc-devel, zlib-devel and gcc) to be installed too, please refer to GraalVM installation documentation for more details.

### Starting the Kogito and Infrastructure Services

This quickstart provides a docker compose template that starts all the required services. This setup ensures that all services are connected with a default configuration.

<p align="center"><img width=75% height=50% src="docs/images/services.png"></p>

### Run Example with PostgreSQL

#### Compile Hiring example with profile postgresql

First thing is to compile the example with the postgresql profile executing:

- Open a Terminal
- Go to the example folder and run
```sh
mvn clean install -Ppostgresql
```

#### Start infrastructure services

You should start all the services before you execute any of the **Hiring** example, to do that please execute:

1. Open a Terminal
2. Go to docker-compose folder
3. Run the ```startServices.sh``` script

```bash
sh ./startServices.sh
```

or

```bash
sh ./startServices.sh postgresql
```

Once all services bootstrap, the following ports will be assigned on your local machine:

- PostgreSQL: 5432
- Kafka: 9092
- Data Index: 8180
- Jobs Service: 8580
- Management Console: 8280
- Task Console: 8380
- Keycloak: 8480
- PgAdmin: 8055

> **_NOTE:_**  This step requires the project to be compiled, please consider running a ```mvn clean install``` command on the project root before running the ```startServices.sh``` script for the first time or any time you modify the project.

Once started you can simply stop all services by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-postgresql.yml stop```.

All created containers can be removed by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-postgresql.yml rm```.

#### Run the Hiring example with PostgreSQL

##### Compile and Run Hiring example process in Local Dev Mode

Once all the infrastructure services are ready, you can start the Hiring example by doing:

- Open a Terminal
- Go to the hiring example folder
- Start the example with the command

```bash
mvn clean package quarkus:dev -Ppostgresql
```

NOTE: With dev mode of Quarkus you can take advantage of hot reload for business assets like processes, rules, decision tables and java code. No need to redeploy or restart your running application.

##### Package and Run in JVM mode

```sh
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql
java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on windows

```sh
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql
java -jar target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

##### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that the following configuration property needs to be added to `application.properties` in order to enable automatic registration of `META-INF/services` entries required by the workflow engine:
```
quarkus.native.auto-service-loader-registration=true
```

Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```sh
mvn clean package -Pnative -Ppostgresql
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `target/`, execute

```sh
./target/./target/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console-runner
```

### Run Example with Infinispan

#### Compile Hiring example with profile infinispan

First thing is to compile the example with the infinispan profile executing:

1. Open a Terminal
2. Go to the example folder and run
```sh
mvn clean install -Pinfinispan
```
#### Start infrastructure services

You should start all the services before you execute any of the **Hiring** example, to do that please execute:

1. Open a Terminal
2. Go to docker-compose folder
3. Run the ```startServices.sh``` script with infinispan argument

```bash
sh ./startServices.sh infinispan
```

Once all services bootstrap, the following ports will be assigned on your local machine:

- Infinispan: 11222
- Kafka: 9092
- Data Index: 8180
- Jobs Service: 8580
- Management Console: 8280
- Task Console: 8380
- Keycloak: 8480

> **_NOTE:_**  This step requires the project to be compiled, please consider running a ```mvn clean install -Pinfinispan``` command on the project root before running the ```startServices.sh infinispan``` script for the first time or any time you modify the project.

Once started you can simply stop all services by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-infinispan.yml stop```.

All created containers can be removed by executing the ```docker-compose -f docker-compose-infinispan.yml rm```.

#### Run the Hiring example with Infinispan

##### Compile and Run Hiring example process in Local Dev Mode

Once all the infrastructure services are ready, you can start the Hiring example by doing:

- Open a Terminal
- Go to the hiring example folder
- Start the example with the command

```bash
mvn clean package quarkus:dev -Pinfinispan
```

NOTE: With dev mode of Quarkus you can take advantage of hot reload for business assets like processes, rules, decision tables and java code. No need to redeploy or restart your running application.

##### Package and Run in JVM mode

```sh
mvn clean package -Pinfinispan
java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on windows

```sh
mvn clean package -Pinfinispan
java -jar target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

##### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```sh
mvn clean package -Pnative -Pinfinispan
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `target/`, execute

```sh
./target/./target/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console-runner
```


### Using Keycloak as Authentication Server

In this Quickstart we'll be using [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) as *Authentication Server*. It will be started as a part of the project *Infrastructure Services*, you can check the configuration on the project [docker-compose.yml](docker-compose/docker-compose.yml) in [docker-compose](docker-compose) folder.

It will install the *Kogito Realm* that comes with a predefined set of users:
| Login         | Password   | Roles               |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------------------- |
|    admin      |   admin    | *admin*, *managers* |
|    alice      |   alice    | *user*              |
|    jdoe       |   jdoe     | *managers*          |

Once Keycloak is started, you should be able to access your *Keycloak Server* at [localhost:8480/auth](http://localhost:8480/auth) with *admin* user.

### Submit a request to start new hiring

Once the service is up and running you can make use of the **Hiring** application by a sending request to `http://localhost:8080/hiring`  with following content:
```json
{   
    "candidate": {
        "name": "Harry Potter",
        "email": "harrypotter@example.com",
        "salary": 30000,
        "skills": "Java, Kogito"
    }
}
```
In a Terminal, you can execute the following command to start a **Hiring** process for the "Harry Potter" candidate:
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/hiring -d @- << EOF
{   
    "candidate": {
        "name": "Harry Potter",
        "email": "harrypotter@example.com",
        "salary": 30000,
        "skills": "Java, Kogito"
    }
}
EOF
```

### Show active Hiring process instance at Kogito Management Console

To access the Kogito Management Console just open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8280``. You'll be redirected to the *Keycloak* log in page.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/keycloak-login.png">
</p>

Once there, log in using any of the users specified in the [Using Keycloak as Authentication Server](#using-keycloak-as-authentication-server) 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_list.png">
</p>

> **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Kogito Management Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-management-console_kogito-developing-process-services) page.

Check the process instance details to see where is the execution path 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_1_new_hiring.png">
</p>

We have configured the timer to avoid the HR interview after reasonable time (40s, just for testing purpose)

Let's give the app more than 40s to see the timer in action.

Check the process instance details 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_2_IT_executed_job.png">
</p>

Job panel shows the job details related to the timer execution:
  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/Job_details.png">
</p>

### Execute IT Interview task at Kogito Task Console

To access the Kogito Task Console just open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8280``. You'll be redirected to the *Keycloak* log in page.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/keycloak-login.png">
</p>

Once there, log in using any of the users specified in the [Using Keycloak as Authentication Server](#using-keycloak-as-authentication-server) 

> **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Kogito Task Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services) page.

Access to Task Console again and verify IT Interview is available  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/TC_listIT.png">
</p>

Access to IT Interview task, and complete.  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/IT_task.png">
</p>

After complete the task, check the list of tasks show both completed tasks  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/TC_listIT_completed.png">
</p>

Check the process instance details to verify the instance have been completed 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_3_completed_executed_job.png">
</p>

Jobs can be accessed in two ways on Management console:

You can navigate to the process details page which has a dedicated panel showing a list of jobs associated with the process instance.

You can also check the list of all the jobs available by navigating to the Jobs section.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/JobsManagement.png">
</p>

Let's verify the HR interview has been avoided looking at application logs.
<p align="center">
    <img width=100%  src="docs/images/HR_interview_avoided_logs.png">
</p>

### Submit a new request to start new hiring

In a Terminal you can execute this command to start a **Hiring** process for the "Jon Snow" candidate:
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/hiring -d @- << EOF
{   
    "candidate": {
        "name": "Jon Snow",
        "email": "jdoe@example.com",
        "salary": 30000,
        "skills": "Java, Kogito"
    }
}
EOF
```

### Execute HR Interview task before timer expires at Kogito Task Console

Access the Kogito Task Console.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/TC_listHR.png">
</p>

Access to HR Interview task and complete
  
<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/HR_task.png">
</p>

Check the process instance details at Kogito Management Console to see the execution path reflects the completed task

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_4_IT_no_job.png">
</p>

Verify the job associated is displayed as cancelled regarding the HR Interview Task has been completed.

Execute IT Interview task as it was described before, and access to the process instance details and see that it has been completed. 

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/MC_details_5_completed_no_job.png">
</p>

Finally, verify the HR interview has been completed by looking at application logs.

<p align="center">
    <img width=100%  src="docs/images/HR_interview_completed_logs.png">
</p>
