kogito-quarkus-examples/dmn-resource-jar-quarkus-example/README.md, before:

# DMN + Quarkus example with model included in different jar

## Description

A simple DMN service to evaluate a model (traffic violation) that is imported from a different jar.

Demonstrates DMN on Kogito capabilities, including REST interface code generation.

## Installing and Running

### Prerequisites

You will need:
  - Java 17+ installed
  - Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
  - Maven 3.9.6+ installed

When using native image compilation, you will also need:
  - [GraalVM 19.3.1](https://github.com/oracle/graal/releases/tag/vm-19.3.1) installed
  - Environment variable GRAALVM_HOME set accordingly
  - Note that GraalVM native image compilation typically requires other packages (glibc-devel, zlib-devel and gcc) to be installed too.  You also need 'native-image' installed in GraalVM (using 'gu install native-image'). Please refer to [GraalVM installation documentation](https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/aot-compilation/#prerequisites) for more details.

### Compile and Run in Local Dev Mode

```
mvn clean install
cd ./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example
mvn quarkus:dev
```

(This requires a previous installation of `dmn-quarkus-resource-jar`)

### Package and Run in JVM mode

```
mvn clean package
java -jar ./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example/target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on Windows

```
mvn clean package
java -jar .\dmn-quarkus-consumer-example\target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```
mvn clean package -Pnative
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example/target/`, execute

```
./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example/target/dmn-quarkus-consumer-example-runner
```

Note: This does not yet work on Windows, GraalVM and Quarkus should be rolling out support for Windows soon.

## OpenAPI (Swagger) documentation
[Specification at swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

You can take a look at the [OpenAPI definition](http://localhost:8080/openapi?format=json) - automatically generated and included in this service - to determine all available operations exposed by this service. For easy readability you can visualize the OpenAPI definition file using a UI tool like for example available [Swagger UI](https://editor.swagger.io).

In addition, various clients to interact with this service can be easily generated using this OpenAPI definition.

When running in either Quarkus Development or Native mode, we also leverage the [Quarkus OpenAPI extension](https://quarkus.io/guides/openapi-swaggerui#use-swagger-ui-for-development) that exposes [Swagger UI](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/) that you can use to look at available REST endpoints and send test requests.

## Test DMN Model using Maven

Validate the functionality of DMN models before deploying them into a production environment by defining test scenarios in Test Scenario Editor. 

To define test scenarios you need to create a .scesim file inside your project and link it to the DMN model you want to be tested. Run all Test Scenarios, executing:

```sh
cd ./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example
mvn clean test
```
See results in surefire test report `target/surefire-reports` 

(This requires a previous installation of `dmn-quarkus-resource-jar`)

## Example Usage

Once the service is up and running, you can use the following example to interact with the service.

### POST /Traffic Violation

Returns penalty information from the given inputs -- driver and violation:

Given inputs:

```json
{
    "Driver":{"Points":2},
    "Violation":{
        "Type":"speed",
        "Actual Speed":120,
        "Speed Limit":100
    }
}
```

Curl command (using the JSON object above):

```sh
curl -X POST -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"Driver":{"Points":2},"Violation":{"Type":"speed","Actual Speed":120,"Speed Limit":100}}' http://localhost:8080/Traffic%20Violation
```
or on Windows:

```sh
curl -X POST -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"Driver\":{\"Points\":2},\"Violation\":{\"Type\":\"speed\",\"Actual Speed\":120,\"Speed Limit\":100}}" http://localhost:8080/Traffic%20Violation
```

As response, penalty information is returned.

Example response:

```json
{
  "Violation":{
    "Type":"speed",
    "Speed Limit":100,
    "Actual Speed":120
  },
  "Driver":{
    "Points":2
  },
  "Fine":{
    "Points":3,
    "Amount":500
  },
  "Should the driver be suspended?":"No"
}
```

The difference from the [dmn-quarkus-example](../dmn-quarkus-example) is that, in the current one, the `Traffic Model.dml` is defined in a different jar.

Commit message:

[incubator-kie-issues#1806] Extend dmn-resource examples to also feature custom DMNProfile usage (#2069)
Co-authored-by: Gabriele-Cardosi <gabriele.cardosi@ibm.com>

kogito-quarkus-examples/dmn-resource-jar-quarkus-example/README.md, after:

# DMN + Quarkus example with model included in different jar

## Description

A simple DMN service to evaluate a model (traffic violation) that is imported from a different jar.
It also features the usage of custom DMN profiles, imported from a dependency and declared inside the application.properties file.

Demonstrates DMN on Kogito capabilities, including REST interface code generation.

## Installing and Running

### Prerequisites

You will need:
  - Java 17+ installed
  - Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
  - Maven 3.9.6+ installed

When using native image compilation, you will also need:
  - [GraalVM 19.3.1](https://github.com/oracle/graal/releases/tag/vm-19.3.1) installed
  - Environment variable GRAALVM_HOME set accordingly
  - Note that GraalVM native image compilation typically requires other packages (glibc-devel, zlib-devel and gcc) to be installed too.  You also need 'native-image' installed in GraalVM (using 'gu install native-image'). Please refer to [GraalVM installation documentation](https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/aot-compilation/#prerequisites) for more details.

### Compile and Run in Local Dev Mode

```
mvn clean install
cd ./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example
mvn quarkus:dev
```

(This requires a previous installation of `dmn-quarkus-resource-jar`)

### Package and Run in JVM mode

```
mvn clean package
java -jar ./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example/target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

or on Windows

```
mvn clean package
java -jar .\dmn-quarkus-consumer-example\target\quarkus-app\quarkus-run.jar
```

### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```
mvn clean package -Pnative
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example/target/`, execute

```
./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example/target/dmn-quarkus-consumer-example-runner
```

Note: This does not yet work on Windows, GraalVM and Quarkus should be rolling out support for Windows soon.

## OpenAPI (Swagger) documentation
[Specification at swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

You can take a look at the [OpenAPI definition](http://localhost:8080/openapi?format=json) - automatically generated and included in this service - to determine all available operations exposed by this service. For easy readability you can visualize the OpenAPI definition file using a UI tool like for example available [Swagger UI](https://editor.swagger.io).

In addition, various clients to interact with this service can be easily generated using this OpenAPI definition.

When running in either Quarkus Development or Native mode, we also leverage the [Quarkus OpenAPI extension](https://quarkus.io/guides/openapi-swaggerui#use-swagger-ui-for-development) that exposes [Swagger UI](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/) that you can use to look at available REST endpoints and send test requests.

## Test DMN Model using Maven

Validate the functionality of DMN models before deploying them into a production environment by defining test scenarios in Test Scenario Editor. 

To define test scenarios you need to create a .scesim file inside your project and link it to the DMN model you want to be tested. Run all Test Scenarios, executing:

```sh
cd ./dmn-quarkus-consumer-example
mvn clean test
```
See results in surefire test report `target/surefire-reports` 

(This requires a previous installation of `dmn-quarkus-resource-jar`)

## Example Usage

Once the service is up and running, you can use the following example to interact with the service.

### POST /Traffic Violation

Returns penalty information from the given inputs -- driver and violation:

Given inputs:

```json
{
    "Driver":{"Points":2},
    "Violation":{
        "Type":"speed",
        "Actual Speed":120,
        "Speed Limit":100
    }
}
```

Curl command (using the JSON object above):

```sh
curl -X POST -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"Driver":{"Points":2},"Violation":{"Type":"speed","Actual Speed":120,"Speed Limit":100}}' http://localhost:8080/Traffic%20Violation
```
or on Windows:

```sh
curl -X POST -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"Driver\":{\"Points\":2},\"Violation\":{\"Type\":\"speed\",\"Actual Speed\":120,\"Speed Limit\":100}}" http://localhost:8080/Traffic%20Violation
```

As response, penalty information is returned.

Example response:

```json
{
  "Violation":{
    "Type":"speed",
    "Speed Limit":100,
    "Actual Speed":120
  },
  "Driver":{
    "Points":2
  },
  "Fine":{
    "Points":3,
    "Amount":500
  },
  "Should the driver be suspended?":"No"
}
```

The difference from the [dmn-quarkus-example](../dmn-quarkus-example) is that, in the current one, the `Traffic Model.dml` is defined in a different jar.
